# README
Petar Tzonevski
May 4th, 2022
Canix API endpoint challenge.

Here is the rundown of the API:
1. System dependencies
  Utilizing RestClient for fetch requests and Rspec for tests - everything else is generated by rails.
  Include these two gems in the Gemfile

  gem 'rest-client', '~> 2.1'
  gem 'rspec-rails', '~> 4.0.1'

  and run "bundle install".

2. How to run API
  Run API with the command "rails server" from the root of the file
    Navigate to "http://localhost:3000/api/posts"
    Append the query parameters as any combination of tags, sortBy, direction
      ex: http://localhost:3000/api/posts?tags=culture&sortBy=likes&direction=asc


  3. How to run test suite
    Run test suite with the command "rspec spec/controllers/api/posts_controller_spec.rb" from the root

    The tests are separated into Status Testing for each query param (Tags, SortBy, Direction) and
    Functionality Testing.
      Tags yield 200 for everything but when left blank or with only non-alphanumerical characters
      sortBy yields 200 for id, reads, likes, popularity and auto-defaults to id(asc).
      Direction yields 200 for asc, desc and auto defaults to asc.


4. Files utilized

Main.
routes.rb --> contains route for api/posts?...
posts_controller.rb --> receives params, utilizes helpers to generate response, renders response

Helpers.
hatch_ways_blog_post_client.rb --> makes GET requests and aggregates them in an array

hatch_ways_blog_post_response_manager.rb --> evaluates what the response of the API should be based on query params

Tests.
posts_controller_spec.rb --> 18 generated tests for status checks and functionality





Notes for reviewer:
This is my first time coding with Ruby. I'm versed in Javascript with React/Express framework for web development and Python for data analysis. Thankfully Ruby on Rails is a very forgiving/developer friendly platform and I didn't struggle much figuring out the Routes and Controllers.

My work is separated into the Controller/Model/Spec paths
  controllers/api/posts_controller.rb
  models/hatch_ways_blog_post_client.rb + models/hatch_ways_blog_post_response_manager.rb
  spec/controllers/api/posts_controller_spec.rb

Thanks for considering my work.





